You will be amazed to see how easy spring data rest makes it to expose a micro service.
Before spring data rest came along,
writing a rest web service for a multi-domain objects system
was tedious and resulted in a lot of boilerplate code and
the use of annotations like rest controller and request
mapping in order to create APIs for simple CRUD operations.
Spring data rest bills on top of spring data repositories
and automatically exports them as rest resources.
So this is something to really get excited about.
The simplest way to get started is if you are building a Spring Boot application,
that's because when using Spring Boot,
spring data rest gets configured automatically.
The first step is to update the Maven palm file with the spring data rest dependency,
Spring Boot starter data rest.
So how does spring data rest work?
At application startup, it finds all of the spring data repositories.
It creates an endpoint that matches the entity name,
it then appends an S to the entity name in the endpoint,
and it automatically exposes CRUD, create, read,
update and delete operations as restful APIs over HTTP.
There is no need to create a controller or even a service layer.
For this repository, spring data rest exposes a collection of
resources at HTTP localhost: 8080 items.
The path is derived from the uncapitalized,
pluralized simple class name of the entity class being managed.
In this case, item.
It also exposes an item resource for each of the items
managed by the repository under the URI template items ID.